# Below is the publicly avaliable information about airships
### Summary
Airships of trove have two primary mechanisms that allow flight: great magical sails that allow for supernatural thrust, and perfectly crafted hulls that practically negate the weight of a ship, both of which allow these great craft to soar through the skys and explore the great beyond! Those who wish to know more, keep reading, we will provide a breif glimse into how these things are made
### Airsails: the essence of flight
Airsails are an essential component of any airship. They provide incredible thrust for the ship, allowing it to glide effortlessly through the sky on the slighets whiff of air. These incredible devices have an incredibly long journey before they finally see use in a maiden voyage.

Airsails begin life in the air. They primarily composed of the down of pegasi, and as such are unusually rare. Although there are many who would love to raise them, pegasi have historically only been ranched in two places: **place name** and **place name**. The down of these creatures is incredibly useful, and the vast majority of it finds a home in airsails. The down is collected and sent to a processing facility that constructs the canvas outer layer of the sails, before stuffing them full of pegasus down. The sail is the joined and treated to weatherproof it and increase its durability. Although this is not a complex process, the rarity of the primary ingredient casuses these sails to cost a hefty coin. Even so, a prepared captain would not be caught dead without 2 or 3 backup sails for every one they have in use.
### Hulls: an intricate work of magic
The hulls of an airship are perhapse even more incredible than airsails. Due to the nature of the nature magic employed in granting them their oh so important qualities, a hull can never be joined from multiple peices. Each hull must be grown as a continuous peice of wood, only carved away from without adding anything more. This one reqirement, allong with the countless imbument rituals and treatments a hull must go through before being fit to fly, makes each airship the masterwork of a shipwright. The average hull takes anywhere from 30-80 annums to grow, even with the intense magical aging process they go through, and only 2-3 new hulls are produced every annum in the breadth of Trove.

An airship hull's creation is a closely guarded secred by the guilds that tend the Hullgroves. Understanding the exact process is likely beyond possibility for one as you or I, but the general principle is widely understood. Firstly, a tree's seed must be magically modified to allow it to grow into the desired shape and size of the future ship. Then the seed is planted and intensley augmented for the first 20 or so annums. Only after much of the growth has started do any treatments begin. 

The treatments a hull recives vary greatly between individual hulls, as well as between different guilds, so every hull is quite unique. Due to differing preferences of different guilds, each one produces a distinct type of airship, and the discerning buyer can usually identify exactly who create a hull based upon its wood, form, runescribing, and a number of other features.

The essential treatment process of a hullseed involves components of magical rituals, imbuing the wood with alchemic salts, scribing runes and glyphs into the wood, and conjuring spirits to bless or empower the living tree. Treatments usually occur at special occasions throuought the annum, during which great festivities are usually held.

Once a hullseed has reached maturity, the guild undergoes a deeply secret process to harvest the seed, and carve the hull from the wood. From here, the hull is dried, treated a final time, and prepared for travel. The new hull is taken to a major port, where the sundrie other components of the ship are assembled.